alright ladies and gentlemen ladies and
gentlemen I'm delighted to be here with
y'all I'm really a little sorry that
it's under these circumstances but I
just want to say that the Attorney
General's refusal to apply for the
appointment of an independent counsel to
investigate possible criminal activity
related to us assistance to Iraq is an
affront to the American people and it's
a threat to their rightful expectation
of impartial even-handed justice its
stonewalling plain and simple and it
leaves all of us as American citizens
with one overriding question what is the
administration trying to hide in the
record of its assistance to Saddam
Hussein the Attorney General's refusal
to let this matter receive further
investigation flies in the face of
information that has been made public
through investigations by numerous
committees of Congress as well as news
meter and other sources we have a 14
page letter from this d'Ivoire 14 page
that along pretty long I won't say thee
mr. Schumer has joined us come on in
Baku 14 page letter accompanied by a 97
page report have done that in 30 days if
they'd spent that time investigating
they might have found out some of what
they call covered employees or soldiers
of the president in the administration
who were obviously involved now the
Attorney General has misconstrued
whether purposely or not what is
required on the Independent Counsel
statute a law I might add that he and
other administration officials have
spared no opportunity to condemn the
statute does not require Congress to
present a signed and sealed indictment
of criminal wrongdoing for the US
prosecutor to simply execute the next
day what it does is require that
Congress find plausible evidence of
possible criminal wrongdoing that
warrants further investigation by an
independent count
because the Justice Department would
have a conflict of interest in
investigating now that test was easily
met and I would refresh the memory of
the Attorney General through the letter
of December the second 1986 to then
eternal attorney general ed Meese
requesting an independent counsel for
the iran-contra investigation some of
you may recall that apparently in credit
to him on this instance even mr. Meese
shared the committee's view of what was
required by Congress in this threshold
stage and I have a copy of the letter on
the iran-contra which will make
available to you as you leave and a copy
of the letter that we sent 30 days ago
the Attorney General says about two
things in his long letter one that for
some matters there's not specific
evidence that rises to the level of
indictment true for those instances
where there's already specific and
undeniable evidence of wrongdoing I
refer particularly to the altered
Commerce Department export documents
leave it to the Justice Department to
investigate the matter itself in the
absence of an Independent Counsel
statute that might be the way how things
would work but there's a small problem
that's not how things are supposed to
work given the law that is now on the
books this letter makes clear that the
department has not even attempted to
move the ball down field by
investigating any lead suggested by the
letter it's simply a critique of the
committee's request with no attempt at
investigating the information and that's
a hunkered down response and has no
place in a preliminary investigation
it's an understatement to say that I'm
disappointed a little bit exasperated
with the decision transmitted today by
the Department of Justice the
Independent Counsel statute certainly
gives the Attorney General the right to
say no
to the committee's request and further
it makes his decision unreviewable by
any court but the court of public
opinion is open for business 24 hours a
day and that court will not be satisfied
with the subterfuge concocted today and
I would like to now introduce first a
distinguished chairman of the house
administration committee and chairman of
the subcommittee on oversight on the
agriculture MIDI mr. charlie rose from
North Carolina like you up in all my
years in Congress have never seen a
cover-up quite this extensive I think
they're more smoking guns lying around
Washington and around the country and
this matter then then they're ever
worried the Battle of Bull Run if you
want to make that analogy I believe that
the president's people have made a grave
error in failing to get this matter
behind them decisively and quickly and I
think the American people will very
quickly react to this cover-up and I
think the administration will rue the
day that they didn't get to the bottom
of this particular problem and let all
the facts hang out the American people
have a right to know how we got the arms
over there over into the Persian Gulf
region that our troops had to face when
the desert storm battle began the
administration does not want that known
they want to cover it up it's a sad day
for the American people now let me
introduce you chairman of the crime and
criminal justice subcommittee on
judiciary committee the Honorable Chuck
Schumer from New York who flew in here
to be here for this purpose the glad you
see it's got to be down here today
anyway but Thank You mr. chairman that's
very nice should be to say that um well
i would say today's decision not to seek
an independent counsel falls like a scud
missile in the middle of our efforts to
get the truth in the face of strong
evidence that certain administration
officials lied to Congress
presented false testimony and even
altered government documents the
Attorney General is attempting to sweep
the whole issue under the rug by not
appointing an independent counsel I'm
particularly surprised and perplexed and
angered that even on the issue of
altered documents the Attorney General
said there's not enough evidence for a
preliminary investigation by an
independent counsel now I don't doubt
the Attorney General's integrity but
when the Attorney General is appointed
by the President and the president's
political life is hanging by a hair how
can anyone it be expected to make an
impartial decision and that's the whole
point of the Independent Counsel law
should the Democratic Congress
investigate should the Republican
Justice Department investigate no it
should be an independent counsel who is
not connected with the political system
when the charges are this serious that
is the reason there's an Independent
Counsel law that is the reason we saw an
independent counsel and once you reject
it any attempt to get at the truth is
gone or at the very least perceived to
be gone by the American people who are
clamoring for some truth here about
clamoring on this issue but clamoring
out of Washington to start come and
clean and telling the truth the Attorney
General believes our charges are so
political and have no basis in fact and
why is he so afraid to appoint an
independent counsel if he's right the
Independent Counsel will find nothing
and it would be far better exoneration
of the administration than something
that the Justice Department where the
buck stops that the president is is done
for now the attorney general and
specific has refused to be even begin
the preliminary investigation I hope
you're aware of that the first step is
to say there's enough evidence for a
preliminary investigation to determine
if there should be an independent
counsel and they even rejected that
that's how boldface this was and he did
so for two reasons one he wasn't present
with sufficient details about the
potential criminality in the committee
letter and to that we're sufficient
evidence would be provided he would
rather investigate internally the
Attorney General's positions reflect an
unwarranted reliance on legal
technicalities as well as continued
hostility to the Independent Counsel
statute he's saying there can be no need
to appoint a preliminary to start a
preliminary investigation until Congress
hands in the smoking gun he says he
needs names dates times and places if we
had those we wouldn't need an
independent counsel the Attorney General
is saying well what he's saying is it's
this is like requiring a victim of a
mugging to have a videotape of the
incident the perpetrator in handcuffs
before you go to the prosecutor it's
backwards doesn't make any sense and so
my belief is that we need an independent
counsel my belief is that it will be
very very difficult if not impossible to
get to the bottom of this without an
independent counsel we don't know who
altered these documents or who ordered
them altered we know they were altered
we know the highest officials in the
land were involved in the whole process
to say until we can prove it there
should be no independent counsel makes a
mockery of the whole process and I might
add that the Attorney General has 60
days in which to determine whether he
believes an investigation is warranted
in the appointment is warranted and then
he goes to a three-man Republican
appointed court three judges and they
would make the appointment at the end of
60 days in addition to that if he wanted
to he can delay another 60 days so in
truth this is not an issue that he has
to face before the November third
election all he has to do is be honest
about it and get on with the program
he's got in fact 120 days
from today before he would appoint would
have appointed by that three-judge court
panel an independent prosecutor to begin
his efforts now that doesn't seem to ask
too much in the name of of honesty and
decency and treatment yeah now this has
been ruled out what are Democrats going
to do to redouble their investigative
efforts we're going to tell you what
happened just like we did today but we
just told you we'll get you all copy of
all those records and all those reports
chairman Gonzalez was to have been here
but he is now preparing to make another
substantial statement on Iraq this
afternoon on the floor and I think you
will have a lot more of that information
it's pretty difficult without trained
investigators and criminal prosecutors
to do the kind of Investigation you want
we'd have to appoint somebody I don't
have people in the Judiciary Committee
that can run that kind of an
investigation expect the Democrats to be
raising this decision by bar in the
presidential race and you expect it to
have any impact on the campaign well I
don't know that it will but certainly I
think the facts would be self-evident I
think that the public is entitled to a
little better treatment than that
cavalier no we're not even gonna do it
to be an issue in the campaign in my
district yes yeah I would say look you
don't know where this is going to roll
in other words this could be an issue
that just goes away i'm sure they're
hoping and praying for that it could be
an issue that snowballs and grows and
grows because if one thing is clear this
year the american people are fed up with
Washington they don't like all the
politics that's going on now the White
House will accuse us of being political
will accuse them of being political one
thing is clear Independent Counsel is
not political never has been that's why
we want it sure what do you want on how
you doing
thank you say I understand mr. Barr was
at work in the attorney justice
department office down in Atlanta where
all of this went on before he came to
Washington was he personally involved
and hold it back on letting the book I
don't know believe that I could say I
don't believe that's anchored in
fairness to attorney general his stance
people he came to Washington from
Atlanta and then he imparted one of his
old hang on mr. Whitley down there to be
the United States Attorneys at the same
bar different bar I'm sure he has a good
relation with the people down there
because they work for humans right but I
don't think it was that million ship sir
when you all bring out the the names of
the companies around Petra Pittsburgh
that was so heavily involved I think
that has been mentioned yes the other
they were the brokers for they brokered
five billion dollars worth of commodity
credits through one bank in Atlanta
because they had the fix in for that
bank to process those and they had
clearance from Washington and they had
clearance from the Agriculture
Department they had clearance from
everybody to can you imagine they're
going to put out five billion dollars in
loans on agricultural commodities in one
little bank in in Atlanta why would they
pick Atlanta for all of it that's right
mr. chairman yes sure well good bank
true if the idea is to get the truth out
quote congressman Schumer Congress has
virtually all the power that a grand
jury would have an independent counsel
you have subpoena power and you have the
ability to appoint the same quality of
investigator than an independent counsel
would my question is do you plan to go
that route I don't think we have the
money to do it you can appropriate
yourself as well yes but that's pretty
difficult given the given the terrible
budget should have been submitted in the
last 12 years which are out of balance
and have got the national debt up to
about four trillion dollars that makes
it pretty difficult on the definitely
made sir against appropriating the money
for an independent counsel yeah it's a
difficulty with that kind of thing is
we're not supposed to be a prosecutorial
agency the whole idea of the Independent
Counsel law was that when there was so
little faith
because of the hot nature of allegations
that the Justice Department couldn't do
it you put it over with another
professional prosecutor none of us are
professional prosecutors and we
shouldn't do it yes sir would you have I
just wondering if you ruled out at this
point going back to the Attorney General
and asking him a second time to
reconsider or gathering any more data
and presenting the request he said in
his letter that he'd be glad to have any
additional information and I'm sure he
would and I'm sure he treated the same
way thank you very much he's got the
information I wish you'd asked the
Attorney General why he apologized to
kennametal up in Latrobe Pennsylvania
because the White House said one time
that they wanted to study he apologized
that cut me for getting them involved in
the press conference at the White House
yes mr. chairman consider selection here
how do you expect the American people to
take your charges seriously if the White
House defense is it's just political I
think they'll take it pretty seriously
because the press has been alert and
I've been aware you have paid attention
to it you read the data you've paid
attention to the documentation that has
been available you attended the hearings
by Gonzalez you attended the roads
hearings you attended barn arts hearings
you paid attention to it and I think
that they don't have to settle this
before the election at all i just
explained to you it would not very
likely be that an independent counsel
would be appointed for 120 days here's
the right to put it off until then and
that means the report would not be for
some months after that you know I don't
think it's political some of the people
have been investigating this for three
or four years this is not something that
just came up you ask the American people
and I hope Bill Clinton will do you
think this is just political or do you
think something is really there and all
that eighty percent of them would say
something is really there when they
refuse to point an independent counsel
you know it makes the American people
think even the more so that something is
really there no guys there they're
afraid to get an independent rendition
and nobody denied that they sent arms
military supplies
right hey if you you and you're the
president just in your hole I'm sorry
your whole futures hanging in the
balance do you think the American people
think a guy appointed by the president
is going to do a fair investigation this
young lady right here yes ma'am mr.
chairman would you release the copy of
the Packers of the report that
accompanied bars letter I don't have a
lot of copies of this about ninety seven
pages long a long long analysis and why
they ought not to do anything about
anything ever except investigate small
People little people that have been
accused of some wrongdoing there's
public far as I'm concerned yet I don't
have a copy available except what do we
have two coffees John well if you really
want it you can have that other one and
you can read it I want you to initial
each page yes sir cynics could get the
impression from what is being said here
today the Democrats would rather have a
political issue then pursue this no
pretty cool no that's not true that's
not right yeah I think that's a that's a
good that's a good at point in this room
but I got started in this business in
1986 looking at the loans through the
Department of Agriculture I'm very
disappointed in what happened today but
I'm going to continue my efforts to talk
to people like Marion gazer and others
who I'm hopeful will now come forward
and give us more details and I believe
the American people's appetite for all
the details whether it's who wrote the
bad checks or what the JFK papers say
will play a strong role in ultimately
getting all these facts and figures
before the American people it may be
that President Clinton will have to get
his Attorney General to appoint a
special prosecutor and i hope to be
around here to help him do that and
we'll go forward with this again in
january yes ma'am I am yes sir
law expires in December there's only
four weeks left well we anticipate that
we will we can we can see you tomorrow
same time in place probably on that we
have to have a new law to extend it it
expires on December the 15th of 1992 and
undoubtedly will have a new bill
introduced within hours had support been
fading up to this point I didn't think
that support had been fading fading in
the Republicans yes they are against it
then the Democrats they're certainly
afar and I think we can fashion I think
this will overwhelmingly motivate
members of Congress to vote in favor of
an extension of that law that would be
no that ultimate ultimate put now that
would be polluted that would really be
surely you wouldn't veto something like
that then again we'll wait'll President
Clinton could not reach yes sir I go
back to the earlier question about why
with submit our you don't why want why
you don't pursue this yourselves well
we're really not criminal prosecutors
just as mr. Schumer told you but Myra's
hazard and there are two other issues no
no they'll claim executive privilege and
you'll be in court for years they will
you run into the same problem with
intelligence documents that chairman
Gonzalez has run is right i mean we
examined before we sought an independent
counsel we examined the best way to get
to the bottom of this and we looked at
congressional investigation and it would
just get bogged down in legalities
before you get to a single witness
Judiciary Committee did a fantastic job
in making this thing come this far well
what's the next step man
I don't think we need to we've already
had them they understand I think the
issues have all been laid out John hand
me that book I want to give that to
Sarah it made public the names of those
companies up there mid May puppy some of
them had a lot of this alone yes well on
of them have the brokers pens off I'm
sure manufactured goods that we said
that sound of the same well I don't know
that we have the name of their producers
oh yeah but he ain't going to give him
to us here we had 800 pages in the
hearings and we had I had senator leahy
and we had congressman roads we had
congressman Barnard that congressman
Gonzalez and they laid out all of the
detail that they know to date and here
it is right here and I want you to have
it well with you John I'm rose talk to
her but we haven't got too much she
wants you to order threat we'd like
together we'd like to get it out of her
we'd love to have a stir sarah with love
from Jack Brooks I used to I used to
loan Sarah money when we were both
reporters in 1939
and she paid me back to by God I think
she spent it all on beer well those will
have was a long time ago it went against
the law then you know for reporters to
have a pop every now I'm sure you
wouldn't do any of that now not now no
sir go ahead well I've called you of
course up front up front he would have
had certain long sad 14 page letter with
all these articles and squabbling about
why he can't do anything mm-hmm note
have had to reject 30 days he has to say
yes or no 60 yeah he wanted to get it
out of the way as quickly as he could he
killed it in 30 days he has to reply to
us then he has 60 days to do an
investigation and determine whether he
needs a independent counsel and then he
would apply it and get one from the
panel and what at that time lay out what
the guidelines are what the status of
the Cajun Connor what the general I
think poor the church they they easily
could have made a decision if they were
going to reject this because they were
afraid of what's in it they'd rather do
it now than 60 days from now because it
was closer to the election but they
could extend it for another 60 right if
they wanted you the Independent Counsel
never would have begun an investigation
till after the election but would have
been appointed or not appointed before
and then but he that's right then it
would be much closer to the election at
60 days it was 90 days from July 12
which is October 12 so he still would
have had to do what he did now by
October twelfth now you're or else
you're being political about it would
you rather do it then or now and they'd
always rather do it now they think
you'll forget then or another 30 before
the Independent Counsel be appointed you
know fighting in the back row and then
we're going to
he recovers from roses assessment that
you've never seen a case looks like it's
got so many leads it looks like a
porcupine with quills whatever that is
we don't know about porcupines in the
Northeast yo they looked like what is it
important feeling like that like a
squirrel and each one of them stick you
all politics the American people who
have not been following all the details
listed what is the most compelling
evidence that requires and counsel to
don't give them to go ahead go heavy the
two at least in my book number one that
documents when Congress asked about
military weapons being sent to Iraq
documents were altered and changed the
man who altered those documents mr.
clasky said that they were done after
conversations with the White House and
the State Department second that we have
evidence I mean it's uncontroverted that
somebody in the White House called the
US attorney who was looking into the BNL
case year and a half ago and said to go
forward with this would be embarrassing
we don't know what else was said we'll
never find out even if we go to court
The Independent Counsel would have those
are pretty strong that's way beyond I
mean the magnitude of selling arms to
Iraq and five billion dollars that's a
huge issue that's mainly a policy issue
right now a big blunder mother of all
foreign policy blunders but it's not a
criminal issue due to videotape
difficulties we are unable to bring you
the conclusion of this news conference
with Democratic representatives Charlie
Schumer Charlie Rose and Jack Brooks
if you would like more information on
the news conference write to mr. Brooks
office it's 2449 rayburn house office
building in Washington DC and the zip
code is 20 5 15
c-span the cable satellite public
affairs network and its companion that
works c-span two are privately funded to
serve the public by America's cable
television companies now here is a look
at the next few events on the c-span
schedule and please note that all times
listed here are Eastern coming up in a
moment a preview of the Republican Party
convention which begins next week in
Houston Texas then at 625